Onelogin (#1)
taksan/authenticator-saml-onelogin: dev-quick-start.md

> # Quick Start

Reviewer: Consider moving this file to the quick-start folder and renaming it README.md as well. It will be rendered on GitHub and makes more sense.

Run the following command inside the quick-start folder:

```sh

> $ docker-compose up -d

Reviewer: What is this going to setup? You never explained so I don't know and am scared to run :(

> ```

Reviewer: For every quick start, explain the requirements at the very beginning.

What do you need installed? What permissions? Do I already need something running before beginning?  
Using Docker, what ports will it use? Do I need to clone this repo anyway, even if using an image?

> ## Nexus

Reviewer: Why do I need a repository manager for this?

+ Wait until nexus is ready, it may take a while.
+ URL: http://localhost:8081
+ User: admin

> + Password: get the password running the following command:

Reviewer: You skipped the "setting up nexus" screen. A simple step warning to setup and ENABLE anonymous access should be enough, otherwise someone might click through it, disabling the anon access, and be sad.

    ```
    docker-compose exec nexus cat /nexus-data/admin.password
    ```

> + Add admin permission to anonymous user.

Reviewer: Please point out to **\*\*!!NEVER DO THIS IN PRODUCTION EVER!!\*\***, otherwise some junior sys-admin might make a senior sys-admin very very very sad one day.

>     + Go to Administration menu, select User and click over anonymous user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Go to the Administration menu, select "Users" on the sidebar and select the anonymous user.
```

>         + Add nx-amin role to the annymous user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Add `nx-admin` role to the anonymous user and save.
```

![nexus_anonymous](images/nexus_anonymous.png)

> + Build the extension to populate the repository with the current version.

Reviewer: ```
angelo@irgeshud:~/Stuff/XWiki/authenticator-saml-onelogin/quick-start (onelogin u=) > mvn clean deploy -DaltDeploymentRepository=repo::default::http://localhost:8081/repository/maven-snapshots
[INFO] Scanning for projects...
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD FAILURE
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
...
```
Oh no! What do I do?

Someone that is not a programmer or knows Java might not understand what is wrong. Specify in which folder to run this command. Also, remember to mention you'll need Maven and a JDK on the requirements at the beginning of the file.

```
mvn clean deploy -DaltDeploymentRepository=repo::default::http://localhost:8081/repository/maven-snapshots
```

> + Check out the Nexus repository

Reviewer: Very "informal", explain why the person is doing this.

```suggestion
+ Verify that the plugin was deployed to the local Nexus Repository.
```

![nexus_repository](images/nexus_repository.png)

## Keycloak

+ URL: http://localhost:8090

> + Login at Console Administration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Login at the "Administration Console"
```

    + User: admin
    + Password: admin

> + After the instalation is finished, its necessary create the realm in the Keycloak importing configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ After the installation is finished, it's necessary to create the realm in Keycloak:
```

    + Keep proposed MyNewRealm name.
    + Go to Keycloak interface and select the option ```Add realm```.
    + Import ```realm-export.json``` file from quick-start folder.

>         + Check ```Enable``` option and click over ```Create``` button.  

Reviewer: Couple of things:
1. You are using the triple backticks for inline code, use a single backtick (unless the inner code has backticks).
1. The instruction `Keep proposed MyNewRealm name.` is placed before the name gets filled in by the file import, move it further down. Also fix the English:  `Keep the proposed "MyNewRealm" name.`.
1. The "Add Realm" option is kinda hidden, I suggest showing on the interface where it is.
1. ```On "Import", select the `realm-export.json` file in the `quick-start` folder.``` reads better.
1. Keep the last instruction on the same indentation as the others.
1. ```Make sure the `Enabled` option is ON and click the `Create` button.``` also reads better.

![keycloak_add_healm](images/keycloak_add_healm.png)

> + Create a new user.

Reviewer: How?

Specify: "On the tab to the left, click Users, then on the right click Add User" or similar.

Also mention to fill out the fields as needed.

![keycloak_user](images/keycloak_user.png)

> + Add password to user

Reviewer: Again, explain how:

"On the Credentials tab..."

Also make sure to mention the "Temporary" field and if it needs disabling (we guess it does)

![keycloak_user_password](images/keycloak_user_password.png)

## XWiki

+ URL: http://localhost:8080

> + Complete the instalations quick-start of XWiki

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Complete XWiki's "Distribution Wizard" setup.

![xwiki_instalation](images/xwiki_instalation.png)

+ Run the following command inside the quick-start folder:
```
$ ./setup.sh
```

> + Next step is go to Administer Wiki menu and Extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Login in as the administrator user you created during the "Distribution Wizard".
+ On the sandwich menu, on the top right, open the "Administer Wiki" page and navigate to "Extensions".
```

>     + Wait for the indexing completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Open the new Extensions page (with the subtitle "Search for new extensions to add to the wiki.").
    + Wait until the indexing completes.
```

    
    ![xwiki_extension_indexing](images/xwiki_extension_indexing.png)

>     + To find the extension, click on the "More" button and then on Advanced search link:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + To find the extension, click the "More" button and then on "Advanced search".
```

        + EXTENSION ID: org.xwiki.contrib.authentication:xwiki-authenticator-saml20

>         + VERSION: 1.0-SNAPSHOT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Fill in these values:
        + EXTENSION ID: `org.xwiki.contrib.authentication:xwiki-authenticator-saml20`
        + VERSION: `1.0-SNAPSHOT`
+ Click "Search".
```

>     + CLick over the install button and wait until finish the instalation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Click the install button, then "continue", and wait until the installation process is finished.
```

![xwiki_extension](images/xwiki_extension.png)

+ Run the following command inside the quick-start folder:

```sh
docker-compose restart web
```

---

> ## Manual Setup

Reviewer: Is this an alternative? Should I continue from above? We actually had stop and read the rest before figuring it out.

After getting to step 4 we realized this is for a bare-metal install :) Please explain this.

1. Build the project

```sh
mvn clean install
```

> 2. Create a folder to store the maven repository files for you wiki. Let's assume for this example it will be in the following place

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a folder to store the maven repository files for you wiki. Let's assume for this example it will be in the following path
```

```sh

> /usr/local/xwiki/data/repo/org/xwiki/contrib/authentication/xwiki-authenticator-saml20/1.0-SNAPSHOT

Reviewer: Isn't this a "development" quick start? Why suggest a directory required root access?

```

3. Copy all files from your maven local repo

```sh

> $M2_HOME/repository/org/xwiki/contrib/authentication/xwiki-authenticator-saml20/1.0-SNAPSHOT

Reviewer: The env var `$M2_HOME` does not exist in my machine. Suggest changing it to 
```suggestion
~/.m2/repository/org/xwiki/contrib/authentication/xwiki-authenticator-saml20/1.0-SNAPSHOT
```
and updating the text above to say something like "... your maven local repository, which is usually located somewhere like..."

Also point out you are copying only the files for THIS PLUGIN, not the entire repo.
Also, for a developer, a symbolic link may be better than a copy.

```

to the directory created on step 2.

> 4. Add the following lines to xwiki.properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the following lines to `xwiki.properties`.
```

```sh

> extension.repositories=local:maven:file:///usr/local/xwiki/data/repo

Reviewer: Where did this path come from? You made me create a bunch of folders in the previous steps and now I'm linking something waaaay above? Why?

extension.repositories=maven-xwiki:maven:https://nexus.xwiki.org/nexus/content/groups/public/
extension.repositories=extensions.xwiki.org:xwiki:https://extensions.xwiki.org/xwiki/rest/
```

5. For Google Workspace, you need to make sure you are behind https. If you are behind a reverse proxy, you might
face issues with wrong http redirections. Try adding the following to your web.xml 
   
```sh
    <filter>
        <filter-name>RemoteIpFilter</filter-name>
        <filter-class>org.apache.catalina.filters.RemoteIpFilter</filter-class>
        <init-param>
            <param-name>protocolHeader</param-name>
            <param-value>x-forwarded-proto</param-value>
        </init-param>
       <init-param>
            <param-name>remoteIpHeader</param-name>
            <param-value>x-forwarded-for</param-value>
       </init-param>
    </filter>
```

> 

Reviewer: Couple of things:
1. What do we do now? I configured the things, am not using Google Workspace... What now?
1. We could not get this method to work, the extensions were mounted in docker, the config is pointing to the folder which does contain `org/xwiki/contrib/authentication/xwiki-authenticator-saml20/1.0-SNAPSHOT`, but nothing.

```
root@4bd1d6abc03d:/usr/local/xwiki/data# tail -n3 xwiki.properties 
extension.repositories=local:maven:file:///usr/local/xwiki/extensions/
extension.repositories=maven-xwiki:maven:https://nexus.xwiki.org/nexus/content/groups/public/
extension.repositories=extensions.xwiki.org:xwiki:https://extensions.xwiki.org/xwiki/rest/
root@4bd1d6abc03d:/usr/local/xwiki/data# ls /usr/local/xwiki/extensions/org/xwiki/contrib/authentication/xwiki-authenticator-saml20/
1.0-SNAPSHOT  13.2  maven-metadata-local.xml  maven-metadata-repo.xml  resolver-status.properties
```

== Notice ==

It is still possible to authenticate against the local authentication. To do that, open the login form URL directly:

>     https://<your wiki domain>/bin/login/XWiki/XWikiLogin

Reviewer: Use triple backticks
